\input texinfo
@setfilename verilog.info
@c $Id$

@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* Verilog-mode: (verilog).	The Verilog Mode user guide.
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
This file documents the Verilog-HDL editing mode for XEmacs and FSF
emacs, called the verilog-mode.

Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Contributed and written by Michael McNamara. 

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy or distribute modified versions of this
manual under the terms of the GPL (for which purpose this text may be
regarded as a program in the language TeX).
@end ifinfo

@setchapternewpage off
@settitle Verilog Mode
@titlepage
@title The Verilog Mode
@subtitle A guide to using the Verilog Mode
@author Michael McNamara
@page
@tex
\def\$#1${{#1}}  % Kluge: collect RCS revision info without $...$
\xdef\manvers{\$Revision$}  % For use in headers, footers too
{\parskip=0pt
\hfill Verilog Mode Support\par
\hfill \manvers\par
\hfill \TeX{}info \texinfoversion\par
}
@end tex

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@end titlepage

@node Top
@c Perhaps this should be the title of the document (but only for info,
@c not for TeX).  Existing GNU manuals seem inconsistent on this point.
@top Scope of this Document

This document documents the use and customization of the Verilog-mode
for Emacs.  
@menu
* New Versions::		Getting new versions
* Installing::		        How to install the Verilog Mode
* Getting Started::		Getting started using the Verilog-mode
* Indent::		        Customizing the indentation
* Colors::      		Enabling and customizing the colors
* AUTO::			Using the AUTO features
* Templates::			Using the Template features
* FAQ::			        Frequently Asked Questions
@end menu

@node New Versions
@chapter Getting New Versions

Check the web at @file{http://www.verilog.com} to see if there are newer
versions of this file.  Also check the FAQ on the web, as it may have up
to date answers to questions that others have asked.

@node Installing
@chapter Installing the Verilog-Mode

If you've got it installed, but there are no colors, check out
@pxref{Colors}.

If you'd like to see the FAQ check out @pxref{FAQ}.

OK, you want to use the Verilog emacs mode, but have never
used emacs, or always had some one else do the messy set up
details.  Here is a step by step recipe for installing the
verilog-mode:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Take the mail message your received, and save it into a
file. Let us say you save it into a file called @file{foo}.

@item
Run uudecode on the file.  There is no need to worry about deleting any
mail headers; uudecode is pretty smart about all that. What you would
type is:
	  
% uudecode < @file{foo}
	
This will create a file called @file{verilog-mode.el.gz} in your current
directory. Now you can remove the file called @file{foo}

@item
Now you need to uncompress the file; use @file{gunzip} which you should
have, if not you can get it from the Free Software Foundation at
ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu. Run:

% gunzip verilog-mode.el.gz 

@item
To install verilog mode for just your own use continue as follows:

Make a directory called @file{elisp} in your home directory.
	      
put the file @file{verilog-mode.el} in this directory, and call the file
@file{verilog-mode.el}
	    
edit the file @file{.emacs} in your home directory. Create this file if
it does not already exist.
	      
Add the lines below (starting with (defun) to that file.  Then run a new
emacs process.  You are all set; this new emacs and all subsequent
emacsen now will know about verilog files and how to indent them, and
colorize them.
	      
Note: you can remove the old lisp you may have from using a previous
version of verilog-mode; the below is all you need. The old stuff tried
to complete the installation of font-lock mode, pick rational colors,
and figure out what color your background screen was.  Emacs is a fair
bit better at this now.

(defun prepend-path (my-path ) 
        (setq load-path (cons (expand-file-name my-path) load-path)))
	  
(defun append-path ( my-path )
        (setq load-path (append load-path (list (expand-file-name my-path)))))
;; Look first in the directory ~/elisp for elisp files
(prepend-path "~/elisp")
;; Load verilog mode only when needed
(autoload 'verilog-mode "verilog-mode" "Verilog mode" t )
;; Any files that end in .v should be in verilog mode
(setq auto-mode-alist (cons  '("\\.v\\'" . verilog-mode) auto-mode-alist))
;; Any files in verilog mode should have their keywords colorized
(add-hook 'verilog-mode-hook '(lambda () (font-lock-mode 1)))

@item

To install verilog mode for general use, continue as follows:
	  
put the file @file{verilog-mode.el} in the appropriate directories, for
XEmacs, it is likely to be @file{/usr/local/lib/xemacs/site-lisp}, and
for FSF emacs it is likely to be is
@file{/usr/local/share/emacs/site-lisp}.  I say likely, because the
person who installed emacs at your site is free to customize this to
their preference.  
	      
An easy way to determine the right place is to type @file{C-h v
load-path RET} to emacs; this will give you a list of the paths that it
is going to search to find lisp files. Here, typing at FSF emacs, I get:

load-path's value is ("/home/mac/emacs/lisp"
 "/usr/local/share/emacs/19.34/site-lisp"
 "/usr/local/share/emacs/site-lisp" 
 "/usr/local/share/emacs/19.34/lisp")
Documentation:
*List of directories to search for files to load.


From examining this, I deduce that
@file{/usr/local/share/emacs/site-lisp} seems appropriate. I didn't
choose @file{/usr/local/share/emacs/19.34/site-lisp} as the
@file{verilog-mode.el} is not emacs-version specific.<p>
		  
Edit the file @file{site-start.el} in the general site-lisp directory.
Create this file if it does not already exist.
	      
Add the lines below to that file.  Then run a new emacs process.  You
are all set; this new emacs and all subsequent emacsen you or anyone
else at your site ever startup will know about verilog files and how to
indent them, and colorize them.!

;; Load verilog mode only when needed
(autoload 'verilog-mode "verilog-mode" "Verilog mode" t ) 
;; Any files that end in .v should be in verilog mode
(setq auto-mode-alist (cons  '("\\.v\\'" . verilog-mode) auto-mode-alist))
;; Any files in verilog mode should have their keywords colorized
(add-hook 'verilog-mode-hook '(lambda () (font-lock-mode 1)))
@end itemize

@node Getting Started
@chapter Getting Started Using the Verilog-Mode

To be supplied.

@node Indent
@chapter Configuring and Using the auto indent features

To be supplied

@node Colors
@chapter Configuring and Using the syntax coloring features

Coloring your code is really cool, impresses your friends, and actually
does help one code quicker, and helps one understand others code. The
only problem is that each version of emacs has different ways of
specifying what color should be used, and hence it is a bear.
      
For a while, I distributed code folks could put in their .emacs that
would attempt to figure out what version of emacs (FSF or XEmacs) was
installed, and which sub version of the two major packages was in use.
Further, it attempted to determine if the user had a dark, or a light
background, and then would install my notion of what might be nice
colors.
      
The world is changing too fast; and both XEmacs and FSF emacs now have
easy to modify, and quite reasonable defaults. Therefore I removed my
distributed code, and have added this section to support folks still
using older emacsen.  Find your version below, and see what hints I have
for getting colors to work.
	    
First: install verilog-mode as per the above instructions. 
      
XEmacs 19.14 and later; FSF emacs 20.x and later</b>

Select the menu bar @code{Verilog->Customize Verilog Fonts and Colors}
and a nice interface pops up where you can select the font-lock-* faces
to colors that you find pleasing. You can choose the font face, whether
it is bold, italic, and/or underlined; or
all three.


FSF emacs 19 and earlier</b>

@itemize @bullet

@item 
Visit a file, and get it in verilog-mode as per above install instructions.
	    
@item
Gag at the ugly default colors.
	    
@item
Include the following elisp in your .emacs:

  (setq font-lock-face-attributes 
  '((font-lock-comment-face "Firebrick")
  (font-lock-string-face "RosyBrown")
  (font-lock-keyword-face "Purple")
  (font-lock-function-name-face "Blue")
  (font-lock-variable-name-face "DarkGoldenrod")
  (font-lock-type-face "DarkOliveGreen")
  (font-lock-reference-face "CadetBlue")))

@end itemize

These are the defaults; go ahead and change the values in quotes to
anything you'd rather have. Clicking on the @code{Edit->Text
Properties->Display Colors} gives you a buffer of color names,
alternatively with the foreground, or background in that color. This can
be useful for addressing the question, "That's ugly, what would be a
better color?" Going to @code{Edit->Text Properties->Display Faces} will
show you the faces that have already been set up.
	    
Older versions

Best is to upgrade if you can. Try:

http://www.xemacs.org XEmacs home page
ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu  GNU Emacs ftp site

@node AUTO
@chapter Using the AUTO feature

To be supplied


@node Templates
@chapter Using the Template feature

To be supplied


@node FAQ
@chapter Frequently asked questions

To be supplied

@contents
@bye
